Narrator: Tonight on The Curse of Oak Island ...
Marty: Come on, baby! 'Now it's time to see
-What's in that hole. -This is part
do Chappell Vault.
-Wow! -Rick: We know that there
significant slopes in M-8.
JACK: Charles, what is it? -What's wrong with you?
It looks like as a scroll to me. -DOUG: Look for red.
This color was used on really old books.
RICK: If you were in charge,
Where do you look? -I would stay
for an entry that is now underwater.
Because I think there is one.
-LAIRD: Hey, Rick? -Yes?
-We found something. Oh man.
What the hell could this be?
Narrator: There is an island in the North Atlantic
where people were looking for an incredible treasure
for over 200 years.
So far, they found a stone slab
with strange symbols carved into it,
mysterious human bone fragments,
and a lead cross whose origin can go back
to the days of the Knights Templar.
So far, six men died trying to solve the mystery.
And, according to legend,
another will have to die
before the treasure can be found.
GARY: Wow, that's a piece of a wall, is not it?
LAIRD: Yep.
RICK: It's very strange.
Narrator: For brothers Rick and Marty Lagina,
performing of a dream lifelong
to solve the 223-year-old mystery of Oak Island
You can now be closer than ever,
as they continue to make incredible discoveries
in Smith's Cove.
RICK: What do you think?
Someone wanted something permanent.
'So what does that mean? - (n)
-Yes. -At the end of the launch pad ...
A piece of concrete.
You tell me what that means.
Have you ever seen anything like this before, Laird?
Underwater -No. - (laughing)
NARRATOR: a few moments,
while digging up what appears to be
an antique wooden shipping dock or launch ramp,
archaeologist Laird Niven made another surprising discovery:
a concrete wall buried approximately three feet
below the ocean floor.
I think there is a way to concrete date?
-Yes. This material? -The Romans had, uh,
concrete that would set underwater.
-Same? -This could be easily ...
incredibly old.
Now, that's a good sign
when you are not getting any metal
the actual concrete wall.
What the hell could this be?
NARRATOR: Why the mysterious concrete wall
is defined under high tide level and contains no metal,
It is the belief of the team that he may have been built
using engineering techniques
first developed by the ancient Romans
already in the third century BC
By mixing volcanic ash with other native minerals,
They created a single concrete mix,
that when poured underwater,
would harden and set.
There are many who have theorized
that even sophisticated knowledge
It would have been necessary to build
elaborate system of tunnels island trapped flood,
which are also believed to be similar in design
to Roman aqueducts.
RICK: You know, at this time, the Smith Creek in the treaties
So many questions,
and now here we have another wall previously unknown
in close proximity to other structures.
Therefore, it is very possible that,
This discovery process as a product,
we may indeed finally, once and for all,
prove who, when, why.
That's why we are here on Smith Creek.
Hey, Rick? -Yes?
Um, we find something for you to look.
What is it?
LAIRD: two connected tubes.
-And they do not take. -They do not look metal to me.
LAIRD: They are not leading, no.
RICK: This is almost a ...
rubbery consistency, right, Laird?
Yes, he is, is not it? -Yes.
And rubber could have been around for a long time.
LAIRD: Well, I found rubber 1850s.
rubber tubes SPEAKER?
Possibly from the mid-19th century?
Although the natural rubber was known
and used by the indigenous peoples of Mesoamerica
as early as 1600 BC,
it was not until the mid-19th century
the chemist and engineer Charles Goodyear
He found a way to improve the substance,
which led to widespread manufacture of rubber products
such as tires, hoses, and footwear.
Could the tubes found inside the concrete wall
be the work of 19th century researchers in Oak Island?
Or is another confusing layer
a mystery team still has to struggle to solve?
RICK: Dan, we have a mystery to you.
-Imagine that. -OK.
What is it?
And you know anything about these tubes?
EH:. Hmm.
At the.
I suppose the mystery is: Why would anyone build
something and then not mention to anyone
-or have any record of it? -Exactly.
LAIRD: I was containg something?
He was holding something?
It was providing something?
Yes.
(Sighs): Yeah.
Smith Cove.
I thought it would be a simple excavation,
find artifacts, find out who and when.
You know, it just goes on ...
Getting wonkier.
"Wonkier" is a good word, yes.
RICK: Well, we have some research to do.
Narrator: In the late afternoon ...
(Ring) line
RICK: Hey, guys.
-Paul: Hey. Marty: Hello.
Marty. Craig.
... Rick Lagina calls a meeting
in the war room to update his brother Marty
and members of the Oak Island team
on the intriguing developments in Smith Cove.
RICK: Well, I think we all agree
today was a ...
a very strange day in Smith Creek, right?
-Yes. -Yes.
I would bet that because we sent him the photos,
you are as confused as we are.
That would be a fair bet, Rick. That would be a fair bet.
RICK: We were on an emotional roller coaster
Oak Island, right?
We checked in a concrete structure
how we are pursuing the launch pad.
And we're ecstatic.
We-we are thinking-- Marty, you know Roman history.
-Right. -Pantheon, the Colosseum,
the underwater pier.
They knew concrete mixes back and forth.
Yes. It's the kind of remains even stranger,
because I...
I like to think I have a vivid imagination,
(Laughs), and I can not come up with a use for this thing.
(Laughing)
You can, Dave?
You know, you have more experience in construction
than any of us.
Do you have any idea
by tubes through a concrete wall?
I have no idea why they would put
tubes -two inches it. -Right next to each other, too,
-right? -Yes.
I have a total blank.
-Dave: We all do. CHARLES: Yeah.
MARTY: Guys, this is a kind of, maybe,
out of right field, but what is the chance
that the concrete wall is much older
of the pipes that are sticking with it?
In other words, someone found it,
holes through it, put there tubes.
I mean, there is some evidence that,
-or could this be? -It's possible.
Yes.
Narrator: It was in 1850
researchers Company Truro
first discovered the drains of legendary stone box
in Smith Creek
by building a clay cofferdam
before draing area.
it's possible
that treasure hunters of the 19th century in Oak Island
modified a much older structure
in order to help them dig Cove Smith?
It has been quite remarkable
how many structures are in Cove Smith
I did not know were there.
So we're always scratching our head.
RICK: But it's important to reach an understanding,
because hope, understanding, research,
put the puzzle pieces together
will take us where we want to go.
And where we want to go is to find the original money pit.
You know, the interesting thing
in connection with this "concrete structure" it is,
you know, we pay more attention to the launch pad.
Yes.
GARY: When you look at it ...
slipway, you see all the logs are used in it.
I think it's basically
a large ramp that goes all the way to the Money Pit.
You think it's original.
I really do.
I believe launch ramp is the glory road.
That is where we will find some things.
MARTY: Yeah. I certainly like
to dig underneath it.
Yes, I think it will be worth it.
Oh, yeah, sure.
And there might even be an older ...
-feature underneath it. -Exactly.
MARTY: Here's what we can say for sure.
The more you dig in Smith's Cove,
the more surprises you find.
I mean, look what we have.
We have an unknown concrete wall.
We have an L-shaped structure
that is to be transformed into a giant structure.
We have a slipway which we thought was
type of accessory for all,
and it can actually be the key to everything.
So, you know, it's easy for us to say, but ...
go back and find out.
Fair. There is much to do.
-no question about it. Marty: Yeah.
We will soon join you.
-Rick: All right. Marty: I see you.
-Rick: See you. -LAIRD: See you later.
NARRATOR: As the excavation of the Smith Creek continues,
Rick Lagina and Dave Blankenship
get to the house Dave's father,
Veteran Oak Island treasure hunter, Dan Blankenship.
How are you doing, Dad? -Dan. B: Hi, Dave.
NARRATOR: They are hoping he can provide answers
for key issues that have
about the mysterious concrete wall
She found earlier today.
RICK: So ...
We are hoping that you can enlighten us.
We are-we are bringing you another puzzle.
Narrator: In more than five decades
Dan spent living
and search for treasure on Oak Island,
he gathered a wealth of first-hand information.
In the early 1970s,
he and his partner, David Tobias,
He constructed a massive cofferdam in Smith Creek
hoping to find the remains
the legendary stone box drains.
It was during this digging
Dan made a number of surprising discoveries,
including two massive wood structures,
one laid out in the form of an "L" and the other a "U"
discovered that the Laginas and his team
recently discovered.
Now, you know Smith Cove, as well as anyone.
Okay, so here's the sheet pile, right?
-Dan B: Yes. -Rick:. Like that.
We discovered the U-shaped structure
Then the U-shaped structure is outside.
And we were following this,
trying to figure out where it ended, and suddenly,
right here, there's this thing.
DAN B:. Is your concrete wall.
-Rick: Yep. -Dave. B: five inches thick,
and it is three feet tall, the concrete itself.
RICK: But there are pipes on the bottom right.
DAN B:. If you're asking me if I had seen any of it,
The answer is obviously no.
who could have done this?
It had to be before 1950.
Restall never done any work like that.
I saw what Restall did in '65,
and all he did was what I call surface work.
RICK: But nothing like this.
At the.
There was a lot of work done in Cove Smith.
Who made this? I do not know.
I do not have your records.
The only thing about, you know, our problems
with the file record is that
most people were so entranced
with the idea of ​​treasure
that recording data was not mandatory.
It was the first guideline.
And so, it may be an original work,
It can be a researcher working illegally.
We do not know, and that's the problem.
DAVE B:. Right in front of that concrete wall.
RICK: Right-right in front of him
is that slipway, pier,
-a old launch pad. -This is important.
I mean, to try and just get a couple of pieces out
-and have it carbon-dated. -Rick: Mm-hmm.
See if you can put an age to launching pad.
Yes, there are no catches there.
None.
So that was ... I mean, my God,
nails were out for God knows how long, you know?
RICK: Gary Drayton came
with an idea that
if you are downloading things off of a ship
and you build this launching pad to the records, right?
-Right. If you do not arrest them,
you put something heavy there,
then you can roll it up the launch pad.
These people were ... they had to use creativity.
-There is no doubt about it. -Yes.
We thought we were going to dig Cove Smith
and get some answers, but ...
Whatever you come up with is questions.
They have been few and far between.
We have some explaing to do, so it's best
-Go out there and do it -Yep.
DAN B:. Back to the drawing board.
(All laugh)
Narrator: The next day, Marty Lagina
and his partner Craig Tester meet
Marty brother Rick, his son Alex,
and other members of his team at the Money Pit site.
Mike, you calculated the plug fall?
This morning, the plug was right at the bottom of the can.
-OK. -E then went
down within a foot bottom,
and we can even in two feet.
-OK. -So we ... technically,
three feet of material.
-Charles. Marty. Craig.
The only thing that's coming out now.
NARRATOR: Working with representatives
Irving Equipment Limited, Laginas and its partners
continuing excavation axis H-8.
An axis that they believe
They may have crossed the original money pit.
It was here last year,
the team found amazing tracks
below a depth of 160 feet,
including pieces of paper and leather binding,
human bones from the 17th century,
and even wooden box of evidence to seven feet tall
first reported by treasure hunters in 1897.
Unfortunately, when the team tried
to penetrate the mysterious object
using a 50 inch wide drilling caisson,
they believe it was actually pushed aside
and a large empty, muddy
located at a depth of about 170 feet.
CRAIG: Something was in front of the can,
and we were pushing it for a while,
and he was pushing all the clay out of the way.
It is still there, then. -Exactly.
-Hello. -Hello.
So, uh, you're making five feet up and down a few times?
-OK. -Yes.
VANESSA: We are bringing to five,
and then back up and down,
and kind of just working down the can.
John -If there monitoring to see
if he feels something different in the making,
If nothing is coming -Craig: Ok ..
VANESSA: But we'll probably get off on, uh,
working up and down, down about 15 feet,
and then to obtain a good measurement,
see if anything is coming, and then continue the process.
OK.
Yes, I think once we get down,
even if they do not measure anything,
go ahead and take a couple of hammer win.
-Just in case something fell, but ... -For sure. Yes.
CRAIG: Why is pushed out somewhere, you know.
-Yes. Yes. 'So whatever we need
She pushed him out back, so ...
NARRATOR: It is the hope of the team Oak Island
that by raising the steel coffin to several feet
the most valuable clues, or perhaps the vault itself,
You can move back into his path,
they can try, then recover
using a claw hammer tool of three tons.
VANESSA: We are in depth casing 194,
and we have a plug-two feet.
-Two plug-foot? -You want us to go back up
and try to get more?
MARTY: Let's ... let's grab.
I mean, I mean, I would not take much material
have fallen under to be interesting.
Yes, we might as well. Yes, OK.
Let's go ahead and do it. Let's take a claw,
then we might want to come up and work it out.
-That's nice. -OK.
Yes, we can do this.
-Rick: What-what is it? -Craig: It's a little
the muddy side.
RICK: What's it?
CRAIG: The middle?
This is amazing.
I have a bag here.
RICK: Just over here.
CRAIG: These are great pieces to be at this depth.
Well, what depth, however, Craig?
-This ... Well, it has to be lower
1-7 ... ... 68 -1 -168.
I thought we were too deep for Chappell Vault,
but I'm wondering if this is part of Chappell Vault.
NARRATOR: Wood? Chappell's Vault?
Found more than 170 feet deep in H-8?
Could the team have successfully located
the legend box believed to contain
the treasure of Oak Island?
RICK: These are all pieces of the puzzle, clues.
Look, each track is important to find it,
especially H-8, which in turn is confirmation
that there is something going on here,
um, it is-is positive news.
NARRATOR: The possibility that the team
located evidence of Chappell Vault
It offers more than an exciting prospect.
Yes, here we go.
NARRATOR: It now requires that every piece of loot
We brought up from the axis H-8
be examined more closely than usual
in an effort to see if they contain important clues
or evidence of treasure.
Hey, Charles!
CHARLES: Ok.
Ufa.
That's a sizeable chunk.
Yes, this is.
What about this wood, Charles?
It is not as light as the other pieces.
And it's not completely black, either.
Let's save that, uh ... let it go.
Hey, Charles, what is it?
CHARLES: What do you think?
I'm thinking it's definitely a fibrous material.
CHARLES: Yep. JACK: Looks
the scroll to me.
JACK: Hey, Charles, what is it?
SPEAKER: While searching through M-8 spoils
Jack Begley and Charles Barkhouse
I have only found a potentially important clue,
one that could prove that the team
It is closer than ever to find the mysterious Vault Chappell.
JACK: It seems that the scroll to me.
It-it's definitely ... uh, we definitely
-have the bag. Yes. -It's just black. Yes.
This ... this means only that it was
in water for a long time.
JACK: Yes CHARLES:. Do you understand?
JACK: I think this is more parchment,
but this-this definitely stands out as unnatural.
Narrator: In 1897,
after penetrating what they believed to be
a dome wood seven feet in height during a drilling operation,
Treasure Hunters William Chappell and Frederick Blair
They were surprised to see not only traces of gold
in a drill
but also a small piece of parchment
with clearly visible letters VI.
This discovery led to a series of fascinating theories
who suggested that the treasure of Oak Island could be composed
more of great monetary value objects.
Some believe that the safe can contain all
of the lost manuscripts of William Shakespeare
the important historical documents,
documents that could connect directly
the mystery of Oak Island for history
of the Knights Templar.
CHARLES: Let's put it in a bag.
Keep this certainly separate.
Let's show the guys. -OK. Right.
Because I think they'll be happy to hear
we found something that is out of place.
I think this is more parchment,
but it is a good indication that once we have the plug removed,
we will start to find all things
we thought we were going to meet last year in H-8.
I hope you're right, Jack.
(Laughs) I think I am, Charles.
No, Rick.
Look what Charles and I just found.
What is it?
JACK: It could be the leather. CHARLES: It could be the leather.
But it is definitely-organic material,
because you can see the fibers.
This was in both the leather and parchment last year.
This is what I was finding
-em H-8. -Sim.
Yes, this needs to be bagged.
-Absolutely. -Yes.
Arriving. Look out, boys.
RICK: The good news scenario
It is this leather can be
and / or parchment, and it is deep in the Money Pit.
And and maybe at some point there may be better news,
that is, if we can recover something more substantial
than just a little.
I mean, the whole ... this whole thing
It is about finding an irrefutable piece of evidence.
Evidence is evidence.
-Yes. -Then more power to you.
It's a great find. -Thank you.
Alright, let's get back to work, Rick.
OK.
Looks good.
I think that pretty much does.
EH:. Oh, boy.
'You have to look at everything. -Yes.
Wait.
Is this some kind of paper. I do not know if it's old.
DAN H:. It is genuine paper.
It could be parchment, but it's really fragile.
Without the writing, anyway.
Not that I can discern.
DAN H:. Different colors?
A color different from the other side?
JACK: Yes.
All right, well, let's bag him.
I really can not say whether or parchment paper
or whether it is old or new, but ...
worth saving.
GARY: You never know. Good eye, Jack.
NARRATOR: Later that day,
Craig Tester and his stepson Jack Begley
join historians island Paul Troutman and Doug Crowell
Research in Oak Island Center
to get a closer look at their recent discoveries
from H-8 axis.
We brought along a couple of things
we had found in H-8, uh, we spoke.
Let's go ahead and and get it
-underneath the uh microscope. -Yes.
DOUG: These samples are all from
-than the level of 160 feet? JACK: Yes.
CRAIG: The first item up is leather.
OK.
JACK: Or at least we think.
PAUL: I think it will be, uh,
one to find out if he has any pattern or anything.
NARRATOR: Using a digital microscope Grobet,
the team will be able to expand the samples
up to 2,000 times its actual size.
CRAIG: We're seeing a little color there.
This is a mineral, or which is a paint of some kind?
That's what I've been flipping back and forth
in my head, Craig, because it is hard to say.
When I collected this material last year from H-8,
I was surprised to learn
it was really leather or binding.
CRAIG: That, to me,
really it looks like leather.
DOUG: Another one for the experts.
CRAIG: Yes, definitely.
Okay, now let's go with
the potential pieces of parchment.
DOUG: Oh, look where it is folded.
This looks a lot like the parchment.
Oh, now, that's interesting. Look for the red.
JACK: Yeah, what is that stuff there?
-Craig: The colored material? -Yes. Pigment?
DOUG: Yes, something has been applied to it.
JACK: You have yellow, and you have this pink line.
I mean, maybe there was something
written on this piece of paper.
DOUG: See, I think it really intriguing because ...
I can imagine the color to use
-in really old books. -Craig: Okay.
DOUG: You know how when they started
paragraph, usually it was ...
It was a great letter,
-and would be in color? -Mm-hmm.
That's what it reminds me.
Narrator: In the early fifth century AD,
a large, stylized initial known as a drop cap
It is sometimes used to adorn the first letter
in each paragraph or chapter of manuscripts
written across Europe and the Middle East.
But what makes new team's findings
further potentially significant
is the fact that such decorative characters
They were most commonly found in religious texts
and important documents
often illustrated with artwork prepared.
DOUG: Look how straight it is.
It does not run all the time.
Yes, it stops abruptly.
CRAIG: Let me turn it over
in case you get a different look from this side.
JACK: Oh look.
You have really fibrous material,
like here,
but then this seems a lot smoother.
As the fibers are only on the opposite side,
Not this side.
That's really intriguing. -Craig: Yes, it is.
Yes, definitely you need to have a look expert at it.
Whether it's paper ... What kind of role?
And I really think that they can do things with these pigments.
When determining which are the pigments that are,
they can determine periods of time,
-so ... -Paul: Yes, discover
or the like is not as
-for the first sample. -Yes.
CRAIG: Thanks, guys.
We'll be back with more.
NARRATOR: It is the beginning of a new day in Oak Island.
MARTY: Come on, baby!
NARRATOR: As brothers Rick and Marty Lagina,
your partner Craig Tester, and other members of your team
continuing excavation axis H-8
in Money Pit area ...
DAVE: Nothing.
Nothing to hold on.
Yes.
... Today also marks the return
a special guest to the island.
It seems that the guys are here.
There he is. Hey, Randall.
Hey you.
Narrator: For the past two decades,
investigative journalist and author Randall Sullivan
has been researching
and write about the mystery of Oak Island.
It is this research that resulted
at the conclusion of a brand new book sheet
on the treasure hunt 223 years.
I look forward to reading your book.
That would be good.
Thus, his book has now come to fruition.
-You guys are getting the first copy.
-All right!
And you changed your thinking
about what and when and what and where?
Well, the things I was interested in
actually became more convincing to me.
-Same? -RANDALL: I just found out
So much history, so much truth.
But pointing here?
He points here.
Well, we are deeply interested in learning more about it.
Let's have a little powwow in the war room.
Okay, great.
-I have a chance to give you the books.
Yes, welcome back.
-Welcome back. -Welcome back.
MARTY: We know Randall Sullivan
It is a good researcher and a great writer.
RICK: Not only he wrote another book
Oak Island, but he has done a very adequate job
research on the mystery of Oak Island
and before the story of the discovery.
The hope is that some of the material
will-will help us or help us
as we move forward with our research.
So I see some books here,
-Mr. Sullivan. Uh, you do. The first two ...
-first two copies. -Oh thank you very much.
MARTY: It's fantastic. Signed, II take it?
-Clear. -Clear.
This is probably how it looks, you know.
(Randall ri)
That's what we'll find out right there.
Yes, there is ... there is much more underground.
-Mm-hmm. Marty: Yes.
-There is no doubt about it. -Yes.
MARTY: Are you happy with that?
Of course I'm happy about it. I mean, when I ...
You know, II think it's certainly the most authoritative
and entertaining story of Oak Island.
What I discovered, to my surprise, really,
confirmed both the origin story.
I believe the fundamental story origin,
Pit the money was found for three teenagers--
John Smith, Anthony Vaughan
-and Daniel McGinnis ... Okay.
I think it's verifiable, actually.
there plausibility
in totally misunderstood anything happened here?
-Not for me. -Not.
I am pleased that the story of origin
-is fundamentally accurate. All right, continue.
-Mm-hmm. -E am, I am also ...
You know, that led to exploration
of the first stories of the research,
which of course leads to, you know, 90 Stone foot
and the initial flood.
-Mm-hmm. -Yes.
MARTY: Where you move away from the lore,
or not? So basically,
you are saying that the flood tunnels, drains the box ...
II think it's clear that that, uh,
Truro Company did find these things
when they went to explore the beach
-and they were crushed by them. -Mm-hmm.
What is the most compelling piece of evidence for you?
I mean, can you can highlight
single most compelling piece of evidence?
I mean, it all works
It is the most compelling piece of evidence.
I mean, something ...
Whatever was done it was done on a scale which required
a job and a commitment that I have always had a hard time
believing that people do it just for a golden treasure.
Mm-hmm.
No matter how big it was.
And when I started to look for theories
coming from this side
and the historical facts that support them,
that's why I was so attracted by Francis Bacon.
Mm-hmm.
(Bird cries)
NARRATOR: Of the many theories
Oak Island,
one of the most compelling suggests
the man behind the mystery
was none other than Sir Francis Bacon,
the renowned philosopher of the 17th century,
scientist and noble.
Some researchers even believe
Bacon came to Oak Island
with original manuscripts of William Shakespeare
and buried them in a filled with mercury lead box.
RANDALL: Bacon was inheriting one ...
a wisdom, a tradition that went back,
you know, even deeper than the times of the Knights Templar.
-Mm-hmm. -There are very
Historical evidence that supports it.
I mean, not-not that it proves that
or sets it for sure,
but increases its plausibility,
because Bacon wrote that
one of the best ways to educate people
It is to create a treasure hunt.
MARTY: Oh, really?
- (laughter) -This ... this SOB
This is quite convincing.
MARTY: Well, if he is the architect of this,
then the man, did he hit the bull's eye
-With this. -Yes.
You may know this, Rick, that that ...
one of the works of Bacon, uh, uh,
It is about creating a perpetual spring.
-Mm-hmm. Yes, and the first line of
their instructions is:
"Dig a hole in the sea."
NARRATOR: Shortly after the death
Sir Francis Bacon in 1626,
his personal secretary, William Rawley,
published a collection of philosophical writings of Bacon
tided forest growing.
Among the nearly 1,000 passages in the text,
one instructs the reader
to "dig a hole on the seashore"
starting above the high water mark,
and then to sink the axis to a point below the sea level.
Will Randall Sullivan discovered evidence
with his hand to Bacon
referring to the construction of the Pit money?
RANDALL: There were lines like that I thought
this is just too much of a coincidence to be a coincidence.
Right.
RICK: If you woke up tomorrow morning
and you were in charge, but you just had a swing,
where you look and what you do ... how do you do it?
Oh. -A swing at bat.
Well, I would look for an entry
which is now underwater.
Wow.
Underwater?
Could Randall Sullivan made a direct connection
between the solution to the mystery of Oak Island
and recent team discovered in Smith's Cove?
RICK: Randall Sullivan
is an advocate of Baconian connection to Oak Island,
I'd rather like me.
That fits with what we're digging here
in Smith Creek, so it's really very interesting.
RANDALL: I am, I am sure that the actual origins
flood tunnel is, you know, way offshore.
-Not the primary flood system. -Mm-hmm.
You know, on the south side. Not in Smith Cove.
NARRATOR: Another flood tunnel system
on the south coast?
In winter 1980, while conducting
a pumping operation in the Money Pit,
Hunter veteran treasure Dan Blankenship
noticed four large holes in the frozen bay
off shore south of the island.
It was his belief that the so-called "ice holes"
that appeared again in 1987,
It may be evidence of a second flood tunnel
feeding water from the ocean to the Money Pit.
Could it be that,
in order to recover the treasure of Oak Island,
the team must turn off not one,
but the bomb multiple systems flood?
RICK: Is there a possibility
that there is an associated tunnel
to the south coast, right next to the stone triangle.
Therefore, it is interesting because it is in an area
we know very little about.
It is worth investigating.
I know you have real work to do.
MARTY: Yeah, we have things to do.
RANDALL: You have to get, you know,
working, you know, the updated version
-which will inevitably come. -That's right.
That's right. We have to get her some material.
That's right.
I have a book to read. -You-you do indeed.
MARTY: Let's go back to it.
Narrator: After his briefing
in the war room, Rick, and Marty Craig
return to the site of the Pit money,
where Jack Begley, Charles Barkhouse
and Dan Henskee continue to scour the spoils
for potential clues dug from the axis H-8.
CRAIG: What's the word?
Well, gravity did its thing.
How many?
-24 feet. -Same?
-Wow. Yeah, so, of course,
-type came was eight feet. -Right.
And then, as we brought the can,
who won another 16, so we are 24 feet fit in the can.
-All right. We will continue to dig. -Yes.
RICK: If this material disappeared
reveals inspiring something that says,
you need to get here and look,
then the game is actually happening because then we go down,
and retrieve what's down there.
Oh, look what we have here.
I think it's ... it seems like a lot
like parchment, except it's black.
It's very, very dark.
CHARLES: It could be.
NARRATOR: Another piece of parchment?
this could be further evidence
that books and old documents are part
Treasure Oak Island?
I'm going to sack him, Jack. Yes, we need to save it.
-Yes. -Just in case.
Oh, here's a nice little ... Yeah!
What do you think of that?
It has all kinds of grains.
He might look like, uh,
something in a human body or ...
Oh, you think this could be a bone?
NARRATOR: Bone?
the team could have found more evidence
of human remains buried in Pit money fund?
And if so, could be related
one of two individuals of the 17th century
whose bones were discovered in the same place last year?
Or it could be the remains
another person, yet to be identified?
It is porous.
Yes, to have someone who, you know, know more than us
have a look at it.
This really is a good find, Dan.
JACK: Some of the important things
that came out of the H-8 remains far
They were the scroll, and then, a bone
which seemed kind of strange.
Aquecê it, Dan!
We should be able to get some information back from that
and some understanding
why these bones are so deep within the earth.
-Hi guys. -Hi. How's it going?
-Whew! CHARLES: Found a few
-interesting things. -Seriously?
Jack thinks he may have found a piece of bone.
Given the grooves on the back here,
I do not know, or was against
a piece of wood? I'm not sure.
CRAIG: It seems almost twisted, though.
CHARLES: Yeah.
Not sure what that is.
JACK: What do you think?
Well, we can take a picture of it
-and send it to Laird. -Yes.
I do not know what to think of this one, it is ...
bone or wood or twisted. It's strange appearance.
-Yes. JACK: The more I look at it,
I think it's more bone because,
I mean, if you look at the hollow center,
it seems that this is where the bone marrow should be.
If it is bone, which is really good news,
Because then we have a third piece of bone to test.
It may be a different individual,
and we can better identify
a period of time and where they came from.
This will help determine who was potentially here, so ...
-Yes. Exciting. Okay, well, that sounds good.
Exciting.
At least we know the oddities found last year
H-8 were not just from this hole.
There's more stuff down there,
and hope to find more.
You know, the more we go through the spoils,
the more things that will come up.
-Absolutely. -There's something
there in the Money Pit, Rick.
II know it. Look, it's not about
-right or wrong. It's not ... No, no.
It's about the search for truth.
-Do you know? -Yes.
But we are finding interesting clues.
We are trying to apply real science
a real mystery with real business acumen.
CHARLES: Yeah. 'So the hope is,
as this year progresses, we will find the only thing.
That's my hope.
CHARLES: Yep.
Narrator: For Laginas and its partners,
the idea that something of historical importance
happened at Oak Island is no longer a question.
But as they continue to dig in Smith's Cove,
the Money Pit,
and other areas across the island,
what will they find?
historical manuscripts invaluable?
Gold and silver left here by the Knights Templar?
Or will it be something much more valuable?
Something so precious,
I needed to be saved with human lives?
Next time on The Curse of Oak Island ...
JACK: We'll find him.
-It should be in this area. -Start recording.
We're recording. This thing can be done by man.
It almost seems an anchor.
Tell me what you think it is.
DOUG: What was considered valuable enough
to bury manuscripts so far underground?
This is a medieval book.
DANNY: See how the floor is gone?
It's caving. He is preparing to tip over.
MARTY: This is a very dangerous place.
All the money Pit can collapse.
RICK: All this work,
all the research.
MARTY: This is not good.
We can not continue.
Subtitling provided by a + E NETWORKS